Adding draft of `bs4_book` docs to the HTML chapter of the bookdown book (#1212)
rstudio/bookdown: inst/examples/03-formats.Rmd

A nice effect of setting `description` and `cover-image` is that when you share the link of your book on some social network websites such as Twitter, the link can be automatically expanded to a card with the cover image and description of the book.

> ### Bootstrap 4 style

Reviewer: I now understand why the current chapter `Bootstrap style` was conflicting.

We could maybe rename the other chapter if you would have a preference of naming this one `Bootstrap style`

But this is title is ok to me. 
I would just add an id. 
```suggestion
### Bootstrap 4 style {#bs4-book}
```

> The `bs4_book` output format is built with Bootstrap (<https://getbootstrap.com>), using carefully crafted features to provide a clean reading experience whether you are on a phone, tablet, or desktop. You can read an example book here: <https://mastering-shiny.org/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `bs4_book()` output format is built with Bootstrap (<https://getbootstrap.com>), using carefully crafted features to provide a clean reading experience whether you are on a phone, tablet, or desktop. You can read an example book here: <https://mastering-shiny.org/>
```

If we are refering tot the format function, we should add the parenthesis I believe.

```{r fig.align='center', echo=FALSE, include=identical(knitr:::pandoc_to(), 'html'), fig.link='https://www.crcpress.com/product/isbn/9781138700109'}
knitr::include_graphics('images/bs4_book.png', dpi = NA)
```

This output format builds upon the Bootstrap CSS framework. Bootstrap is a library of reusable chunks of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript code that you can call on to modify your book without writing that code yourself. It is a free and open source project, and you can view the repository on GitHub: <https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap>. Bootstrap versions do get updated periodically; this format uses version 4 (<https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/>).

The output format function in **bookdown** is `bs4_book()`. Here are its arguments:

```{r bs4-book-args, code=formatR::usage(bookdown::bs4_book, output=FALSE, fail='none'), eval=FALSE, R.options=list(width=50)}
```

In addition to the basic **bookdown** components (Section \@ref(components)), the main features of `bs4_book` are:

- Easy customisation of colours and fonts with

>   the bslib package (<https://pkgs.rstudio.com/bslib/>)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the **bslib** package (<https://pkgs.rstudio.com/bslib/>)
```

> - Built-in search (broken down by section) that helps readers quickly find t
>   they are looking for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Built-in search (broken down by section) that helps readers quickly find what
  they are looking for.
```

- A sidebar containing a within-chapter table of contents that makes
  navigation easy and helps provide context about your current position
  within the chapter.

- Thoughtful typography to make the contents as easy as possible to read,
  regardless of the size of your device. A sticky header gets out of your
  way when reading, but is easily accessible if you need it.

- In-line footnotes mean you can read asides next to the next they refer
  to. This theme is best paired with a reference style that generates
  footnotes.

- R syntax highlighting and autolinking by

>   the downlit package (<https://downlit.r-lib.org/>) is paired with a accessible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the **downlit** package (<https://downlit.r-lib.org/>) is paired with a accessible
```

A chapter *must* start with a first-level heading: `# A good chapter`, and can contain one (and only one) first-level heading. 

Use second-level and higher headings within chapters like: 

```md
#   A good chapter

##  A short section

### An even shorter section
```

The first- and second-level headings will appear in that chapter's sidebar on the upper right as a "sticky" within-chapter table of contents that stays in place as you scroll down. In the sidebar, when a section is navigated to, subheadings will auto-expand such that third-level headings like "An even shorter section" are visible.

The `index.Rmd` file is required, and is also your first book chapter. It will be the homepage when you render the book.

A YAML header in `index.Rmd` for a `bs4_book` would look like this:

```yaml
---
title: "A Minimal Book Example"
author: "John Doe"
date: "`r Sys.Date()`"
site: bookdown::bookdown_site
output: bookdown::bs4_book
url: https://bookdown.org/johndoe/bookdown-demo
cover-image: cover.png
description: |
  This is a minimal example of using the bookdown package to write a book.
  The output format for this example is bookdown::bs4_book.
---
```

#### Callout blocks

> The `bs4_book` theme also includes special callout blocks, like this `.rmdnote`.

Reviewer: I would say 
```suggestion
The `bs4_book` theme also includes special callout blocks with predefined styles. Available blocks `.rmdnote`, `.rmdcaution`, `.rmdimportant`, `.rmdtip`, and `.rmdwarning`. 

You need to use the following syntax to use them: 
```

And I would put a screenshot of what those block will look like. Seems useful.

> ::: {.rmdnote}
> You can use **markdown** inside a block.
> 
> ```{r collapse=TRUE}
> head(beaver1, n = 5)
> ```
> 
> :::

Reviewer: You need verbatim here, otherwise it is process by Pandoc, and the bookdown's book style will apply for this blocks
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6791940/127390170-002422d3-fee1-4898-a0cb-6aec0e8db49b.png)

`````suggestion
````markdown
::: {.rmdnote}
You can use **markdown** inside a block.

```{r collapse=TRUE}`r ''`
head(beaver1, n = 5)
```

:::
````
`````

> You may also use: `.rmdcaution`, `.rmdimportant`, `.rmdtip`, or `.rmdwarning` as the block name.
> 
> 
> It is up to the user to define the appearance of these blocks for LaTeX output. See this section in The R Markdown Cookbook: <https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown-cookbook/custom-blocks.html> for a how-to.

Reviewer: I would say: 
````suggestion
For LaTeX output, only the content of these blocks will be shown with no special styling as for HTML. It is up to the user to define the appearance of these blocks for LaTeX output using custom environments. See this section in The R Markdown Cookbook: <https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown-cookbook/custom-blocks.html> for a how-to.
````

> #### HTML metadata

Reviewer: Maybe we should have this HTML metadata part in the publishing section as a "How to configure social sharing metadata" before publishing. Most of the configuration is now common to both formats. 

But here is fine too.

HTML `<meta>` tags will be set based on Pandoc's variables set in `index.Rmd`:

 * `pagetitle` (or `title` if unset) will be used as `og:title`
 and `twitter:title` content.
 * `description` will be used as `description`, `og:description` and
 `twitter:description` content.
 * `url` will be used as `og:url` and as base for `cover-image`

>  * `cover-image` is the path to your local cover image, and will be used as
>  `og:image`, appended to `url` value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * `cover-image` is the path to your local cover image, and will be used as
 `og:image`, appended to `url` value. `cover-image` can also take an absolute url.
```

 * `twitter-handle` will be used as `twitter:site` content.

If these values are set, then the associated `<meta>` tag will be set in the
resulting HTML file. The provided values will be used asis in `index.html`.
They will then be tweaked for each chapter to produce different metadata for h
page as expected by social media:

* All `description` related meta will be auto generated from page content,
* `og:url` will be set to the specific HTML page url,
* All the other `<meta>` will stay the same.

You can have a look at [`bs4_book()` HTML

> template](https://github.com/rstudio/bookdown/blob/master/inst/templates/bs4_b.html) for details on how these variables are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
template](https://github.com/rstudio/bookdown/blob/master/inst/templates/bs4_book.html) for details on how these variables are used.
```

A nice effect of setting `description` and `cover-image` is that when you share the link of your book on some social network websites such as Twitter, the link can be automatically expanded to a card with the cover image and description of the book.

> ### Bootstrap 4 style {#bs4-book}

Author: What about:

### Three-column Bootstrap style

### Two-column Bootstrap style

That way, users won't skim and think and the "Bootstrap style" chapter is the only Bootstrap-based HTML book.

The `bs4_book()` output format is built with Bootstrap (<https://getbootstrap.com>), using carefully crafted features to provide a clean reading experience whether you are on a phone, tablet, or desktop. You can read an example book here: <https://mastering-shiny.org/>

```{r fig.align='center', echo=FALSE, include=identical(knitr:::pandoc_to(), 'html'), fig.link='https://mastering-shiny.org/', fig.alt="Screenshot of a bs4_book landing page to show the basic site layout"}
knitr::include_graphics('images/bs4_book.png', dpi = NA)
```

> This output format builds upon the Bootstrap CSS framework. Bootstrap is a library of reusable chunks of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript code that you can call on to modify your book without writing that code yourself. It is a free and open source project, and you can view the repository on GitHub: <https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap>. Bootstrap versions do get updated periodically; this format uses version 4 (<https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/>).

Author: I'll move it lower, but think it is helpful as we cannot assume folks know what Bootstrap is.

In addition to the basic **bookdown** components (Section \@ref(components)), the main features of `bs4_book` are:

- Easy customisation of colours and fonts with
  the **bslib** package (<https://pkgs.rstudio.com/bslib/>)

- Built-in search (broken down by section) that helps readers quickly find what
  they are looking for.

- A sidebar containing a within-chapter table of contents that makes
  navigation easy and helps provide context about your current position
  within the chapter.

- Thoughtful typography to make the contents as easy as possible to read,
  regardless of the size of your device. A sticky header gets out of your
  way when reading, but is easily accessible if you need it.

- In-line footnotes mean you can read asides next to the next they refer
  to. This theme is best paired with a reference style that generates
  footnotes.

- R syntax highlighting and autolinking by

>   the **downlit** package (<https://downlit.r-lib.org/>) is paired with a accessible

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  the **downlit** package (<https://downlit.r-lib.org/>) is paired with an accessible
```

>   colour scheme designed by Alison Hill.

Reviewer 2: Unfortunately this book uses American English...

```suggestion
  color scheme designed by Alison Hill.
```

  
- Enhanced metadata for social sharing via platforms like Twitter, LinkedIn, and Facebook, so that each chapter shared will have a unique description, auto-generated based on that chapter's content.

- Ability to configure links to a remote repository like GitHub or GitLab, allowing readers to easily view each chapter's source file or suggest an edit.

> The output format function in **bookdown** is `bs4_book()`. Here are its arguments:

Reviewer 2: I think users will almost surely need `bookdown::bs4_book` instead of the function `bs4_book()`, so I suggest that we present the former directly:

```suggestion
The output format function is `bookdown::bs4_book`. Here are its arguments:
```

```

This format also requires extra dependencies that you'll be prompted to install: `r knitr::combine_words(bookdown:::bs4_book_deps())`.

#### Writing a `bs4_book`

The easiest way to get started writing a new `bs4_book` is to use the RStudio Project Wizard (*File > New Project > New Directory > Book project using bookdown*) and select `bs4_book` from the dropdown menu: 

```{r fig.align='center', echo=FALSE, include=identical(knitr:::pandoc_to(), 'html'), fig.alt="Screenshot of the RStudio Project Wizard for creating a new bs4_book project."}
knitr::include_graphics('images/new-bs4-book.png', dpi = NA)
```

If you don't use RStudio or prefer a function, you can create the same project template with `bookdown::create_bs4_book()` from your R console. See `?create_bs4_book` for help.

This theme is designed for books that use one chapter per page. 
This means that each chapter is an `.Rmd` file, and each `.Rmd` file can contain one (and only one) chapter. 
A chapter *must* start with a first-level heading: `# A good chapter`, and can contain one (and only one) first-level heading. 

> Use second-level and higher headings within chapters like: 

Reviewer 2: Lower or higher? I often say "lower" because they are contained inside upper-level headings. I can understand that "higher" also makes sense because the numbers are higher (first, second, third...).

```suggestion
Use second-level and lower-level headings within chapters like: 
```

```md
#   A good chapter

> ##  A short section
> 
> ### An even shorter section

Reviewer 2: They are not necessarily shorter in length (but lower-level):

```suggestion
##  A section

### A subsection
```

A YAML header in `index.Rmd` for a `bs4_book` would look like this:

```yaml
---
title: "A Minimal Book Example"
author: "John Doe"
date: "`r Sys.Date()`"
site: bookdown::bookdown_site
output: bookdown::bs4_book
url: https://bookdown.org/johndoe/bookdown-demo
cover-image: cover.png
description: |
  This is a minimal example of using the bookdown package to write a book.
  The output format for this example is bookdown::bs4_book.
---
```

#### Callout blocks

The `bs4_book` theme also includes special callout blocks with predefined styles. Available blocks are: `.rmdnote`, `.rmdcaution`, `.rmdimportant`, `.rmdtip`, and `.rmdwarning`. 

You need to use the following syntax to use them: 

````markdown
::: {.rmdnote}
The `bs4_book` theme also includes an `.rmdnote` callout block like this one.
```{r collapse=TRUE}
head(beaver1, n = 5)
```
:::
````

You may use Markdown syntax and inline code inside a block. When knitted, this will render as:

```{r fig.align='center', echo=FALSE, include=identical(knitr:::pandoc_to(), 'html'), fig.alt="A special rmd-note callout block."}

> knitr::include_graphics('images/rmd-note.png', dpi = NA)

Author: I'll clarify this section.

```

For LaTeX output, only the content of these blocks will be shown with no special styling as for HTML. It is up to the user to define the appearance of these blocks for LaTeX output using custom environments. See this section in The R Markdown Cookbook: <https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown-cookbook/custom-blocks.html> for a how-to.

#### HTML metadata

HTML `<meta>` tags will be set based on Pandoc's variables set in `index.Rmd`:

 * `pagetitle` (or `title` if unset) will be used as `og:title`
 and `twitter:title` content.
 * `description` will be used as `description`, `og:description` and
 `twitter:description` content.
 * `url` will be used as `og:url` and as base for `cover-image`
 * `cover-image` is the path to your local cover image, and will be used as
 `og:image`, appended to `url` value. `cover-image` can also take an absolute url.
 * `twitter-handle` will be used as `twitter:site` content.

> If these values are set, then the associated `<meta>` tag will be set in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If these values are set, then the associated `<meta>` tags will be set in the
```

> resulting HTML file. The provided values will be used asis in `index.html`.

Reviewer 2: "as is" or "as-is"?

```suggestion
resulting HTML file. The provided values will be used as is in `index.html`.
```

They will then be tweaked for each chapter to produce different metadata for h
page as expected by social media:

* All `description` related meta will be auto generated from page content,
* `og:url` will be set to the specific HTML page url,

> * All the other `<meta>` will stay the same.

Reviewer 2: I feel these two bullets are too much implementation detail. Do users really need to know this information?

Same thing for the next bullet list (the two meta tags that are not configurable).

Author: @yihui these were added to the documentation reference page, and I didn't want to delete that info because (as this is the main doc) it needs to be stated/saved somewhere. I'll move these to a footnote.

A nice effect of setting `description` and `cover-image` is that when you share the link of your book on some social network websites such as Twitter, the link can be automatically expanded to a card with the cover image and description of the book.

### Three-column Bootstrap style {#bs4-book}

> The `bs4_book()` output format is built with Bootstrap (<https://getbootstrap.com>), using carefully crafted features to provide a clean reading experience whether you are on a phone, tablet, or desktop. On a full-size screen, the layout includes three columns of content so readers can quickly see the book chapters as links on the left-hand side, and within-chapter content links in the right-hand sidebar. You can read an example book here: <https://mastering-shiny.org/>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `bs4_book()` output format is built with Bootstrap (<https://getbootstrap.com>), using carefully crafted features to provide a clean reading experience whether you are on a phone, tablet, or desktop. On a full-size screen, the layout includes three columns of content so readers can quickly see all chapters on the left, the current chapter in the middle, and sections withinthe the current chapter on the right. You can read an example book here: <https://mastering-shiny.org/>
```

```{r fig.align='center', echo=FALSE, include=identical(knitr:::pandoc_to(), 'html'), fig.link='https://mastering-shiny.org/', fig.alt="Home page for a bs4_book showing the layout with a table of contents on the left, main chapter content in the center, and an 'on this page' sidebar on the right."}
knitr::include_graphics('images/bs4_book.png', dpi = NA)
```

> This output format builds upon the Bootstrap CSS framework (version 4: <https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/>), an open source library of reusable chunks of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript code.

Reviewer 3: Duplicates the first sentence of the first paragraph a bit. Could they be combined?

- Ability to configure links to a remote repository like GitHub or GitLab, allowing readers to easily view each chapter's source file or suggest an edit.

The output format function is `bookdown::bs4_book`. Here are its arguments:

```{r bs4-book-args, code=formatR::usage(bookdown::bs4_book, output=FALSE, fail='none'), eval=FALSE, R.options=list(width=50)}
```

This format also requires extra dependencies that you'll be prompted to install: `r knitr::combine_words(bookdown:::bs4_book_deps())`.

#### Writing a `bs4_book`

The easiest way to get started writing a new `bs4_book` is to use the RStudio Project Wizard (*File > New Project > New Directory > Book project using bookdown*) and select `bs4_book` from the dropdown menu: 

```{r fig.align='center', echo=FALSE, fig.alt="Screenshot of the RStudio Project Wizard for creating a new bs4_book project."}
knitr::include_graphics('images/new-bs4-book.png', dpi = NA)
```

If you do not use RStudio or prefer a function, you can create the same project template with `bookdown::create_bs4_book()` from your R console. See `?create_bs4_book` for help.

This theme is designed for books that use one chapter per page. 

> This means that each chapter is an `.Rmd` file, and each `.Rmd` file can contain one (and only one) chapter. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This means that each chapter is an `.Rmd` file, and each `.Rmd` file can contain one chapter. 
```

(The only one is implied by the first clause, IMO)

> A chapter *must* start with a first-level heading: `# A chapter`, and can contain one (and only one) first-level heading. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
That means each file *must* start with a first-level heading, `# Chapter title`, and that must be the only first-level heading in the file. 
```

Use second-level and lower-level headings within chapters like: 

```md
#   A chapter

##  A section

### A subsection
```

> The first- and second-level headings will appear in that chapter's sidebar on the upper right as a "sticky" within-chapter table of contents that stays in place as you scroll down. In the sidebar, when a section is navigated to, subheadings will auto-expand such that third-level headings like "A subsection" are visible.

Reviewer 3: Feels like that was (or could be?) explained above.

> The `index.Rmd` file is required, and is also your first book chapter. It will be the homepage when you render the book.

Reviewer 3: Would be useful to link to the advice how to exclude from the printed book, since (at least for me) this often contains text that is only pertinent to the website.

A YAML header in `index.Rmd` for a `bs4_book` would look like this:

```yaml
---
title: "A Minimal Book Example"
author: "Jane Doe"
date: "`r Sys.Date()`"
site: bookdown::bookdown_site
output: bookdown::bs4_book
url: https://bookdown.org/janedoe/bookdown-demo
cover-image: cover.png
description: |
  This is a minimal example of using the bookdown package to write a book.
  The output format for this example is bookdown::bs4_book.
---
```

#### Styling & customization

This output format allows for easy customization of colors and fonts with the **bslib** package (<https://pkgs.rstudio.com/bslib/>).

You can use the `theme` option to add a `primary` color in hexidecimal format (<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_colors>), which will change the color of all links in your book and the background color of the footer.

```yaml
bookdown::bs4_book:
  theme:
    primary: "#0d6efd"   
```

> For custom font settings, adding a `google:` keyword triggers [`sass::font_google()`’s](https://rstudio.github.io/sass/reference/font_face.html) ability to automatically import Google Font files (<https://fonts.google.com/>). By default, `google:` will bundle font files with your book, so that when you share it with someone else, the fonts are guaranteed to render, even without an internet connection (`local: false` imports files via URL instead of serving them locally). Here is an example YAML that changes the `base_font`, `heading_font`, and `code_font`:

Reviewer 3: I think it would be better to mention `local: false` in a later paragraph, as this one is already information packed.

```yaml
bookdown::bs4_book:
  theme:
    primary: "#0d6efd"   
    base_font: 
      google: Sen
    heading_font:
      google:
        family: Bitter
        wght: 200
    code_font:
      google: 
        # arguments to sass::font_google() 
        family: DM Mono
        local: false
```

#### Callout blocks

> The `bs4_book` theme also includes special callout blocks with predefined styles, which will include a colored border around the text and/or code inside the callout. Use the following syntax to create a callout block: 

Reviewer 3: Need to define a callout?

```yaml
bookdown::bs4_book:
  theme:
    primary: "#0d6efd"   # default .rmdnote = blue
    danger:  "#dc3545"   # default .rmdcaution = red
    success: "#198754"   # default .rmdimportant = green
    info:    "#0dcaf0"   # default .rmdtip = cyan
    warning: "#ffc107"   # default .rmdwarning = yellow
```

For LaTeX output, only the content of these blocks will be shown with no colored outline as for HTML. It is up to the user to define the appearance of these blocks for LaTeX output using custom environments. See this section in The R Markdown Cookbook: <https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown-cookbook/custom-blocks.html> for a how-to.

#### HTML metadata

Bookdown will generate HTML `<meta>` tags based on Pandoc's variables set in `index.Rmd`, described in \@ref(metadata-for-sharing). Additionally, `bs4_book()` will create unique chapter descriptions auto-generated from the chapter's contents. You can have a look at [`bs4_book()` HTML
template](https://github.com/rstudio/bookdown/blob/main/inst/templates/bs4_book.html) for details on how these variables are used.

#### References/Bibliography

> The `bs4_book` format makes footnotes appear inline when you click on them. 
> Making your citations _footnotes_
> allows readers to read them near the text they are referred in.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Making your citations _footnotes_ allows readers to read them near the text where they're used because `bs4_book` makes footnotes appear inline when clicked. 
```

To do that, download a footnote style CSL file

> like `chicago-fullnote-bibliography.csl` (we recommend: <https://www.zotero.org/styles/>), then

Reviewer 3: Link to this csl file?
